#summary First steps with DKPro Similarity

= Getting Started =

== Step 1: Maven Setup ==

This is a Maven project and makes use of some libraries that are not readily available in public Maven repositories. Therefore we have set up a Maven repository which provides these libraries as well as releases of this project.

In order to set up your Eclipse installation properly and use this repository, we ask you to follow
[http://code.google.com/p/dkpro-core-asl/wiki/UkpMavenRepository these instructions].

== Step 2: Create a new Project ==

  * In Eclipse, choose to create new a *Maven Project*.
  * On the first page of the properties dialog, tick *Create a simple project (skip archetype selection)*.
  * On the next page, choose a *Group ID* and an *Artifact ID* for your project. We suggest to use *com.yourdomain.yourname* as the Group ID and *com.yourdomain.yourname.sandbox* as the Artifact ID.
  * Set the parent project to *de.tudarmstadt.ukp.dkpro.core* (Group ID), *dkpro-parent-pom* (Artifact ID), in the latest version (*2* or above)
  * Select this one, leave all other options on default and click *Finish*.

In case you run into problems (i.e. dependencies are not resolvable), try adding these lines to your *pom.xml*:
{{{
<distributionManagement>
    <repository>
            <id>ukp-oss</id>
            <url>dav:https://zoidberg.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/artifactory/public-ukp-releases-local/</url>
    </repository>
    <snapshotRepository>
            <id>ukp-oss</id>
            <url>dav:https://zoidberg.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/artifactory/public-ukp-snapshots-local/</url>
    </snapshotRepository>
  </distributionManagement>
}}}

== Step 3: Add the Dependencies ==

  * In your newly created project, open the *pom.xml* file with the Maven POM editor.
  * On the *Dependencies tab*, choose *Add* next to the Dependencies list. Search for *similarity.algorithms.api-asl* and add *de.tudarmstadt.ukp.similarity.algorithms.api-asl* from the result list. Make sure that in the *dependency properties* section, the _type_ is set to an empty string (which corresponds to the default and means: JAR), and the scope is _compile_.
  * In case the above step doesn't work (as the search index may not be up-to-date), edit the *pom.xml* with a plain text editor. Add the following child to the *dependencies* element:
{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>dkpro.similarity</groupId>
  <artifactId>dkpro.similarity.algorithms.api-asl</artifactId>
  <version>2.0.0</version>
  <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
}}}
  * With other Maven modules which you intend to use, repeat these steps. These may be, for example, string-based relatedness measures in the module *`*`.algorithms.lexical-asl*, or measures based on lexical-semantic resources such as !WordNet in the module *`*`.algorithms.lsr-asl*.

== Step 4: Additional Resources ==

Several measures in DKPro Similarity require [SettingUpTheResources additional resources], e.g. !WordNet. Continue reading [SettingUpTheResources here] for details on how to obtain and install them.