#summary SemEval-2013 STS baseline system

= !SemEval-2013 STS Baseline System =

This page is intended for all participants of the [http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/semeval-2013/task6/ SemEval-2013 STS Task]. We describe the task's offical baseline system, which is roughly the system ranked best in the [http://ixa2.si.ehu.es/starsem/proc/pdf/STARSEM-SEMEVAL051.pdf 2012 exercises].

== System Description ==

The system described here uses a simple linear regression model, trained on the training data, to combine multiple text similarity measures of varying complexity. These range from simple character and word n-grams and common subsequences to complex features such as Explicit Semantic Analysis vector comparisons and aggregation of word similarity based on lexical-semantic resources. Our ﬁnal models, one per dataset, consist of a linear combination of about 20 features.
For details, please refer to our [http://www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de/fileadmin/user_upload/Group_UKP/publikationen/2012/STARSEM-SEMEVAL059.pdf system description paper].

The system presented here differs from the original implementation at !SemEval-2012 in that it does not use a distributional thesaurus and no text expansion mechanisms (lexical substitution system, statistical machine translation), as the corresponding code and the accompanying resources cannot be readily made available to the public.

== Installation Instructions ==

The !SemEval-2013 Baseline System is implemented as part of _DKPro Similarity_, a collection of software components for similarity computation between texts of any length, which is intended to be used in conjunction with DKPro Core and Apache UIMA.

=== Step 1: Maven Setup ===

The project is implemented as a Java Maven project. It makes use of some libraries that are not readily available in public Maven repositories. Therefore we have set up a Maven repository which provides these libraries as well as releases of this project.

In order to set up your Eclipse installation properly and use this repository, we ask you to follow
[http://code.google.com/p/dkpro-core-asl/wiki/UserSetup these instructions]. You also need to make sure that you have set up our open source Maven repository properly [http://code.google.com/p/dkpro-core-asl/wiki/UkpMavenRepository (Instructions)].

=== Step 2: Checkout ===

Next, check out the subproject as a Maven project in Eclipse {{{trunk/de.tudarmstadt.ukp.similarity.experiments.semeval2013}}}, which resides in the [http://code.google.com/p/dkpro-similarity-gpl/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fde.tudarmstadt.ukp.similarity.experiments.semeval2013 GPL variant] of the similarity package. [http://code.google.com/p/dkpro-core-asl/wiki/DeveloperSetup#Checking_out Need help with the checkout?]

== Step 3: Run ===

You should now be able to run the system. Therefore, execute the {{{Pipeline}}} with the {{{-D}}} program argument, to start in training mode.

== Extend the system ==

*We explicitly encourage you to extend the system.* New similarity measures can be added with ease by subclassing {{{TextSimilarityMeasureBase}}}. We added an example for a custom measure called {{{MyTextSimilarityMeasure}}} to the {{{*.example}}} package, and added the corresponding calls to the {{{FeatureGeneration}}} class.

=== Add a custom similarity measure ===

In general, a new text similarity measure can be added by doing two things: (a) setting up a concrete class for implementing the measure, which subclasses {{{TextSimilarityMeasureBase}}}, and (b) adding a wrapper class which subclasses {{{TextSimilarityResourceBase}}} which allows to use the measure in a DKPro language processing pipeline.

Please refer to the reference implementations in the {{{*.example}}} package to learn more about how to use them. For a first glance, we also list the code for the two classes below.
{{{
public class MyTextSimilarityMeasure
	extends TextSimilarityMeasureBase
{
	@SuppressWarnings("unused")
	private int n;
	
	public MyTextSimilarityMeasure(int n)
	{
		// The configuration parameter is not used right now and intended for illustration purposes only.
		this.n = n;
	}
	
	@Override
	public double getSimilarity(Collection<String> stringList1,
			Collection<String> stringList2)
		throws SimilarityException
	{
		// Your similarity computation goes here.
		return 1.0;
	}
}
}}}
{{{
public class MyTextSimilarityResource
	extends TextSimilarityResourceBase
{
	public static final String PARAM_N = "N";
	@ConfigurationParameter(name=PARAM_N, mandatory=true)
	private int n;
	
	@SuppressWarnings({ "unchecked", "rawtypes" })
    @Override
    public boolean initialize(ResourceSpecifier specifier, Map additionalParams)
        throws ResourceInitializationException
    {
        if (!super.initialize(specifier, additionalParams)) {
            return false;
        }
        
        this.mode = TextSimilarityResourceMode.list;
        
		measure = new MyTextSimilarityMeasure(n);
        
        return true;
    }
}
}}}

=== Use a different classifier ===

In case you do not want to use a Linear Regression classifier, but experiment with your own, please go to the {{{*.util.Evaluator}}} class, and just modify the line
{{{
Classifier baseClassifier = new LinearRegression();
}}}
to suit your needs. WEKA is already available through the Maven dependencies, so feel free to experiment with any other classifier from that package.